
 
 
 
 
 
 United Institute of Technology  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Principal's Messages 
 United Institute of Technology 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Greetings from the Principal United Institute of Technology (UIT). 
   United Institute of Technology (UIT)  is a premier educational institution of the Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow. First and foremost I would like to express my deep sentiments of gratitude to each one of you for your constant support and concern towards the college which enables and encourages us to strive hard to carry forward the mission of spreading value-based knowledge. 
 Education is not only an act of acquiring knowledge but also learning a skill to lead life and forming one’s personality. We focus on discovering, developing and drawing out the hidden talent inside our students. From academics to co-curricular activities, perseverance and a never-say-die spirit are entrenched in the heart of every student not only making them good students but brilliant human beings. In today’s dynamic world, a 360 degree development and grooming is of supreme importance and through our campus we are creating an environment for future leaders, entrepreneurs and professional who possess skills and aptitudes in an array of functional disciplines. We believe that education is an effective medium of social transformation. We get encouragement, looking at bright and successful careers of our thousand students which subsequently benefit the society. We feel proud that we are part of such an excellent institute which is shaping modern India. 
 I am very happy with the progress the college has made by imbibing in its students value based education synergized with modern teaching-learning methods to produce a well informed and emotionally sound generation. I am positive that in times to come we will continue this journey with elevated enthusiasm and persistently provide a platform of holistic learning to the young generation of learners. 
 Our students graduate with the skills, mind sets and qualities that will best equip them for success. Come on let’s give our best and make this institution a modern temple of learning through our diligence, devotion and dedication. 
 Wishing you all the best in the world of the future.   
 Prof. (Dr.) Sanjay Srivastava  M.Sc (Physics), M.Phil, PhD (MNNIT)
							 Principal, United Institute of Technology  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 COURSES OFFERED 
 
 
 
 
 
     B. TECH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4000  + 
 SCHOLARSHIPS  GIVEN BY UNITED 
 
 
 
 
 11400  + 
 PLACEMENTS  OFFERED ON CAMPUS 
 
 
 
 
 14000  + 
 ALUMNI  PAN INDIA 
 
 
 
 
 12000  + 
 STUDENTS  OUR CAMPUS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corporate Office 
 
 
 United Tower 53, Leader Road, Allahabad, U.P. India. 
 
 
 Phone :  0532-2402951-55 
 Toll Free No :  1800 3131 808  
 
 
 Email ID :  [email protected] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Campus Address 
 
 
 D3, UPSIDC Industrial Area, Naini, Allahabad, U.P., 211010 
 
 
 Phone :  +91-9999707942 
 Toll Free No :  1800 3131 808  
 
 
 Email ID :  [email protected] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Important Links 
 
 
 Program Offered 
 Detail As Per NBA 
 For  Grievance Redressal Click Here 
 Feedback Facility - Faculty & Students (AICTE Portal)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © 2023 United Institute of Technology all right reserved 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
