United Institute of Technology Vision & Mission Vision of The Institute : To be a value-based institution continuously striving for excellence in engineering education, research and entrepreneurship development, fostering habitude of skill development and multidimensional growth. Mission of The Institute : M1 : To provide state-of-the-art infrastructure and conducive learning environment to analyze, investigate, design and develop solutions using engineering knowledge. M2 : To foster a habitude of skill development and entrepreneurship focused towards in-depthknowledge, leadership and multidimensional growth. M3 : To conduct impactful research, generate novel ideas and reach innovative solutions foraddressing the needs of the society. M4 : To inculcate ethical values and social responsibility in thoughts, expressions and deeds, individually and also collectively. Principal’s Message Greetings from the Principal, United Institute of Technology (UIT). United Institute of Technology (UIT) is a premier educational institution of the Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow. First and foremost I would like to express my deep sentiments of gratitude to each one of you for your constant support and concern towards the college which enables and encourages us to strive hard to carry forward the mission of spreading value-based knowledge. Education is not only an act of acquiring knowledge but also learning a skill to lead life and forming one’s personality. We focus on discovering, developing and drawing out the hidden talent inside our students. From academics to co-curricular activities, perseverance and a never-say-die spirit are entrenched in the heart of every student not only making them good students but brilliant human beings.In today’s dynamic world, a 360 degree development and grooming is of supreme importance and through our campus we are creating an environment for future leaders, entrepreneurs and professional who possess skills and aptitudes in an array of functional disciplines. Our UG Courses #Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Duration: 4 year Read more #Engineering Electronics & Comm. Engineering Duration: 4 year Read more #Engineering AI & ML & Engineering Duration: 4 year Read more #Engineering Mechanical Engineering Duration: 4 year Read more #Engineering Civil Engineering Duration: 4 year Read more #Engineering Electrical Engineering Duration: 4 year Read more Visit our Campus with image gallery or watch video Play now Corporate Office United Tower 53, Leader Road, Allahabad, U.P. India. Phone : 0532-2402951-55 Toll Free No : 1800 3131 808 Email ID : [email protected] Campus Address D3, UPSIDC Industrial Area, Naini, Allahabad, U.P., 211010 Phone : +91-9999707942 Toll Free No : 1800 3131 808 Email ID : [email protected] Important Links Program Offered Detail As Per NBA For Grievance Redressal Click Here Feedback Facility - Faculty & Students (AICTE Portal) © 2023 United Institute of Technology all right reserved